
## Define the File System Hierarchy

File system Hierarchy Standard (FHS) is described in `man 7 file-hierarchy` 


| Directory Use |                                                                                                                                    |
| :-----------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|       /       | Specifies the root directory. This is where the file system<br>tree starts.                                                        |
|     /boot     | Contains all files and directories that are needed to boot<br>the Linux kernel.                                                    |
|     /dev      | Contains device files that are used for accessing physical<br>devices. This directory is essential during boot.                    |
|     /etc      | Contains configuration files that are used by programs<br>and services on your server. This directory is essential<br>during boot. |
|     /home     | Used for local user home directories.                                                                                              |
| /media, /mnt  | Contain directories that are used for mount                                                                                        |
|     /opt      | Used for optional packages that may be installed <br>on your server                                                                |
|     /proc     | Used by the proc file system. This is a file system <br>structure that gives access to kernel information                          |
|     /root     | Specifies the home directory of the root user                                                                                      |
|     /srv      | May be used fir data by services like NFS, FTO, and HTTP                                                                           |
|     /sys      | Used as an interface to different hardware devices<br>that are managed by the Linux kernel and associated<br>processes             |
|     /tmp      | Contains temporary files that may be deleted without <br>any warning during boot                                                   |
|     /usr      | Contains subdirectories with program files, libraries, for <br>these program files, and documentation about them.                  |
|     /var      | Contains files that may change in size dynamically, such <br>as log files, mail boxes, and spool files.                            |
## Understanding Mounts
A [[mount]] is a connection between a device and a directory. Linux file system is presented as one hierarchy, with the [[root directory]] (/) as its starting point. The hierarchy may be distributed over different devices and even computer systems that are mounted into the root directory. In the process of mounting, a device is connected to a specific directory, such that after a successful mount this directory gives access to the device contents

Mounting devices makes it possible to organize the Linux file system in a flexible way. There are several disadvantages to storing all files in just one file system, which gives several good reasons to work with multiple mounts.
- High activity in one area may fill up the entire file system which will negatively impact services running on the server.
- If all files are on the same device, it is difficult to secure access and distinguish between different areas of the file system with different security needs. By mounting a separate file system, you can add mount options to meet specific security needs.
- If one-device file system is completely filed, it may be difficult to make additional storage space available.

Because of this it is common to organize Linux file systems in different devices (and even shares on other computer systems), such as disk partitions and logical volumes, and mount these devices into the file system hierarchy. By configuring a device as a dedicated mount you also are able to use specific mount options that can restrict access to the device. Some directories are commonly mounted on dedicated devices:
- */boot*: This directory is often mounted on a separate device because it requires essential information your computer needs to boot. Because the [[root directory]] is often on a Logical Volume Manager (LVM) logical volume, from which Linux cannot boot by default, the kernel and associated files need to be stored separately on a dedicated */boot* device.
- */boot/EFI*: If a system uses Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI) for booting , a dedicated mount is required, giving access to all files required in the earliest stage of the boot procedure.
- */var*: This directory is often on a dedicated device because it grows in a dynamic and uncontrolled way (for example, because of the log files that are written to /var/log). By putting it on a dedicated device, you can ensure that it will not fill up all storage on your server.
- */home*: This directory often is on a dedicated device for security reasons. By putting it on a dedicated device, you can mount it with specific options, such as **noexec** and **nodev**, to enhance the security of the server. When you are reinstalling the operating system, it is an advantage to have home directories in a separate file system. The home directories can then survive the system reinstall.
- */usr*: This directory contains operating system files only, to which normal users normally do not need any write access. Putting this directory on a dedicated device allows administrators to configure it as a read-only mount.
Apart from these directorie, you may find serves that have other directories that are mounted on dedicated partitions or volumes also. To get an overview of all devices and their mount points you can use different commands.
- The [[mount]] command gives an overview of all mounted devices. To get this information, the /proc/mounts file is read.
- The **df -Th** command was designed to show available disk space on mounted devices; it includes most of the system mounts. Because it will look on all mounted files systems, it is a covenient command to use to get a n overview of current system mounts. The **-h** option summarizes the output of the command in a human-readable way, and the **-T** option shows which file system type is used on the different mounts.
- The **findmnt** command shows mounts and the relationship that exists between the different mounts. Because the output of the mount command is a bit overwhelming, you may like the output of **findmnt**. 


